hi everyone welcome to the i prefer
school implementations weekly sync for
monday the 18th of january 2020. i am
making brain i'll be your host
we're going to go around the room and
talk about hyper initiatives
other initiatives parking lot q a you
know the drill by now
uh the attendance is slightly down today
uh because the holiday in the us
um so you know happy holidays
people taking time off uh good for you
anyway let us start so high priority
initiatives
the first thing is upcoming and ship
releases uh so
i can talk about js ipfs uh 53 shipped
at the end of last week uh which is
super exciting it has the
experimental grpc web server in it web
server
web rpc up there grpc
web over web sockets server which means
that we have now
true full duplex bi-directional
streaming for rgfs ad
which is exciting and we'll roll that
out to the other streaming methods as
soon as we can
do check the ipfs blog
for the skinny on that though the
post hasn't been published yet we
published tomorrow um on the 19th
it also comes with uh p2p 0.30
which is very exciting and has lots of
uh improvements there
that is that anything else upcoming or
radical moving on pinning services
yeah so um excuse me
last week we had sort of like a
pull request merge fest on the go ipfs
site in preparation of
in preparation for 0.8 or
release candidates too and a bunch of
pull requests related to pinning
services a bunch of
play requests related to remote command
pin remote commands
landed
or are very close to landing
we are working on automated
pinning of mfs words uh
that's still being blocked by
uh some interrupt issues between how
replace command works
how our ci tests work and how
pinata is actually implementing the api
so we are
testing it both on the ci and end to end
with pinata i think we've
figured out a way to move forward with
uh
mfs pinning uh i know peter is not
around so i
uh i'm not sure what's the current plan
but i
i think if it takes too much time to
stabilize this we will
the scope it so we'll see tomorrow when
everyone from u.s is back
are we including mfs pinning in rc2 or
not
so stay tuned bye guys
cool uh next up is local pinning
which says no update uh
data transfer speed improvements the
team are not back yet so there's no
update there
next one is js improves discoverability
and connectivity
yeah so last week finished the pr with
the benchmark
setup and also collected a bunch of
metrics with basically
different network scenarios and scales
the results seem reasonable and
depending on the scale of the network
we will need to deploy probably a
cluster of renewable servers
as we already anticipated so i also
created the pr
with an example of using a rendezvous in
jslp2p
and now while i will wait on reviews for
that
i will start working on the connection
manager overall
uh i need to double check if the
previous plan
proposed this still makes sense and
start working on that
after yeah and uh probably i will be
spending some time also working on
changing the jsl p2p
testing setup because i do it all and
also
uh because we currently uh can't run it
on
note 15 because of the way we have
we test our modules like the dht and pub
sub uh
and we use peer dependencies for that
and now they are installed
uh automatically with note 15 and it is
causing some trouble so i will try to
also get that in
this week
npm does like to keep things interesting
uh next up is bi-directional streaming
and studios in the browser this has
shipped
it has shipped we can totally remove
this from the
uh notes going forward very exciting
uh javascript dht no updates uh i still
need to
go back and look at all the feedback
on the pr around the um
[Music]
uh nut hole punching
but i think i'm going to like this week
i'm going to try mostly on
concentrating on helping hugo and her
actually uh
drag the type stuff over the line so
that we can
stop just stop with the types and
start with the features um
that marks the end of the high priority
initiatives and next up is the other
initiatives speak of the devil
and it shall appear typescript
integration who can talk about
typescript integration
uh i can talk about the lovely ptp site
uh we got
our slp build got broken last friday
after an update in the typescript types
for node
in the event emitter i was talking we do
go and think
uh what we could do in the meantime
while
uh that gets eventually fixed upstream
and so
we basically now have the event emitter
types locally
in gsl b2p and we already released it so
that the build
is not broken anymore and eventually we
will probably
think about using a metering instead of
event emitter
because this will also be a problem with
webpack five
so yeah probably we will look in
moving to that
oh and we also have the
data store prs were all updated to the
new config to the new azure
and everything bubbled up from
each other uh also this needed to
like api facilities i think so
everything is up to date
this is the final reviews so we can get
the ipfs repo types done
finally
yes i must have been doing reviews
nothing other than that
in terms of typescript
oh and um we need i think it's
uh i don't know which one
of you gonzalo or alex is the maintainer
of the air code
but we have a pr there pending and i
think we have permissions on that ripple
so we could kind of unblock that pr
yeah so i saw the pr and i responded i
had some comments on
it like pretty much as soon as it was
opened but never heard anything back
oh so it's gonzalo's fault i mean
we're a team i must have missed it i'll
look at it
we succeed together and we fail together
there is no there is no
individual who's going to yeah no
nothing
you just pointed at the notes in my
screen it's the note's fault
just like just pointing to the offside
anyway it's good i was not aware
that i had to do something there so
uh next up is badger two no three
support
um no updates there just waiting to see
if uh
we want to actually go and create a new
repo for that
um i think there's some feedback that
adeen was looking for
in there but uh but we haven't done
anything so
it just waiting on some decisions
uh uh not traversal
yeah so arch got a proof of concept
working like on friday
of tcp hole punching with simultaneous
connect and go live pdp
um that was against a aws ec2 machine
talking to his node at home on a laptop
so that worked and he's going to
continue work this week on
quick side of things and also work on
finishing up the multi-stream
1.0 extension for that so i think he
might be a little blocked on reviews
um from steven so we'll try to poke for
a review there
cool uh unix first view 1.5 inch s
don't think there's an update here
i profess gc improvements
um continuing to to do some work on um
on that it looks like we can have
we can delete uh nodes and uh without
causing
any catastrophic damage so performance
i didn't uh we don't have a lot any any
uh
new development there in terms of
anything that's going to be put into
uh anything any kind of release or uh pr
anytime soon so it's just continuing
uh continuing work that's done on to
look at the performance but
probably we'll see something uh end of
this week
i would anticipate in terms of a
prototype
nice uh did you get straight on to the
chiropractors migrations rework
oh yeah the migrations are
are uh all um ready for pr the first one
that needs to be
um there are there are pr's out there
for them the first one that needs to be
completed is the review of the
distributions pr because everything else
uh depends on the distributions being
set up in a particular manner that
that those are and then everything else
will if
assuming that goes through everything
else will be ready to merge at this
point
uh pending any any issues that come up
and reviewing all that code because
they've
been completely overhauled so those are
all ready it's just a matter of
somebody having the time to review them
because they're a little bit lower
priority right now
fair enough uh ibm's pops up api revamp
yeah so the background story here is uh
threebox had a
issue with styling pops up subscriptions
in
js ipfs http client which was due to
node fetch bugs that i submitted there's
a patch now that fixes it
but that also led to the discussion
maybe api should slightly be
revamped so said errors are harder to
miss
or connections closing are harder to
that i think was approved for
implementation so i had been
working on that um which
quickly during implementation i realized
that i'm basically
reinventing uh web readable streams api
settings already there including
browsers
to a larger degree so i pivoted slightly
to
polyfilling readable streams api e-node
and using native ones in browsers
also using extension of native ones
because native ones in browsers don't
fully implement the stack yet
uh specifically s iteration is missing
and few other apis
but those are easy to add as a like a
subclass of readable streams
and there's a link in the notes to the
libraries that kind of
put it all together and tries to
give you readable streams across the
board and
that would be used to give the pops up
api
or that pops up subscription api
interesting because the
yeah let's go i need to read it
last time somebody re-wrote streams
again we ended up with pull streams
which were good for the time
yeah so idea is that it's you it will be
readable streams but you don't have to
know about it you can treat as
a singly trebles and
but yeah we can talk about it more if
you wanna offline
[Music]
next up is the memory leak in jsovs
yeah so this also came from feedback
from three box
uh they made an issue uh they were
talking about the http client
that is the memory continues growing and
shuts down the node and they need to
restart and all that
so it's it's not the http server um it's
probably the preload or bitswap or both
so i'm currently doing more research
i'm basically setting up a testbed where
i can better control
um and trigger a bit swap between two
notes
instead of just relying on like
activating like preload and then the bit
swap starts
doing his thing with the brittle notes
i'll have more info by the end of the
week
i'm not sure if it's relevant or useful
but i remember
at some one point we've added like
limits
to how many concurrent requests can be
executed as a part of preloads and
delegate ones
but i don't think we do that like in our
code we use some library for that
what i mean is that this memory leak
do we actually know if it's like
legitimate
it's possible that it's just they have
so many
cued requests it looks like memory leak
because we have those limits on
pre-order calls and
on the delegated routing calls and i
think i think
three box was experimenting with both
so they may have a bunch of like cute
things
in memory uh it doesn't seem to like
uh when when i start like
reloading anything like it could be
small small blocks could be
big blocks could be many blocks i easily
can go up to
one gigabyte of ram and never get it
back
if i continue to add more blocks more
blocks its gross growth grows
but it slowly comes back to one gigabyte
but never goes
uh below one gigabyte so something
yeah maybe unrelated yeah okay yeah
that was the end of the other
initiatives uh does anybody got anything
for designer review proposals
blockers and asks
questions
there is one thing in the parking lot uh
public service announcement
bravery yeah totally uh just like
uh i think i mentioned that last week
asking for uh
testing so this is just a psa for anyone
watching this uh that brave 119 will
land in the stable channel this week i
think maybe tomorrow
so that's a cool milestone for us
it will be native support for our
your eyes which means you just entered
them
you don't need to enable anything the
first time you use
the uri you will have you will be able
to choose do you want to run your own
node
and load content from ipfs that way or
delegate
resolution of ipfs addresses to
some trusted public gateway and you can
customize the
gateway you're using so that's the psa
anything else for the parking lot
then we are done thank you very much for
coming please do fill out your
async updates uh to let people know
what's going on
uh thank you very much this has been the
ivy festival implementations weekly sync
for monday the 18th of january 2021
see you all on the internet bye